

===== PAGE 1 =====
MoE-Lightning: High-Throughput MoE Inference on
Memory-constrained GPUs
Shiyi Cao
shicao@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Shu Liu
lshu@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Tyler Griggs
tgriggs@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Peter Schafhalter
pschafhalter@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Xiaoxuan Liu
xiaoxuan_liu@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Ying Sheng
ying1123@stanford.edu
Stanford
Palo Alto, CA, USA
Joseph E. Gonzalez
jegonzal@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Matei Zaharia
matei@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Ion Stoica
istoica@berkeley.edu
UC Berkeley
Berkeley, CA, USA
Abstract
Efficient deployment of large language models, particularly
Mixture of Experts (MoE) models, on resource-constrained
platforms presents significant challenges in terms of compu-
tational efficiency and memory utilization. The MoE archi-
tecture, renowned for its ability to increase model capacity
without a proportional increase in inference cost, greatly
reduces the token generation latency compared with dense
models. However, the large model size makes MoE mod-
els inaccessible to individuals without high-end GPUs. In
this paper, we propose a high-throughput MoE batch infer-
ence system, MoE-Lightning, that significantly outperforms
past work. MoE-Lightning introduces a novel CPU-GPU-I/O
pipelining schedule, CGOPipe, with paged weights to achieve
high resource utilization, and a performance model, HRM,
based on a Hierarchical Roofline Model we introduce to help
find policies with higher throughput than existing systems.
MoE-Lightning can achieve up to 10.3× higher throughput
than state-of-the-art offloading-enabled LLM inference sys-
tems for Mixtral 8x7B on a single T4 GPU (16GB). When
the theoretical system throughput is bounded by the GPU
memory, MoE-Lightning can reach the throughput upper
bound with 2–3× less CPU memory, significantly increasing
resource utilization. MoE-Lightning also supports efficient
batch inference for much larger MoEs (e.g., Mixtral 8x22B
and DBRX) on multiple low-cost GPUs (e.g., 2–4 T4s).
1 Introduction
Mixture of Experts (MoE) [10, 22, 41, 46] is a paradigm shift
in the architecture of Large Language Models (LLMs) that
leverages sparsely-activated expert sub-networks to enhance
model performance without significantly increasing the num-
ber of operations required for inference. Unlike dense mod-
els [40, 47, 53], where all model parameters are activated for
each input, MoE models activate only a subset of experts,
thereby improving computational efficiency.
While the MoE models achieve strong performance in
many tasks [10, 22], unfortunately, their deployment is chal-
lenging due to the significantly increased memory demand
for the same number of active parameters. For example, the
Mixtral 8x22B model [32] requires over 256 GB of memory
for the parameters of the expert feed-forward network (FFN),
which is 4 − 5× higher than the memory requirements of
dense models that require similar FLOPs for inference.
In this paper, we study how to achieve high-throughput
MoE inference with limited GPU memory. We are focus-
ing on off-line, batch-processing workloads such as model
evaluation [29], synthetic data generation [14], data wran-
gling [33], form processing [7], and LLM for relational an-
alytics [31] where higher inference throughput translates
into lower total completion time.
The common approach for memory-constrained batch
inference is to offload model weights [4, 19] and key-value
tensors of earlier tokens (KV cache) [42] — which are needed
for generating the next token – to CPU memory or disk. Then,
they are loaded layer-by-layer to the GPU for computation.
Unfortunately, existing solutions fall short of effectively
overlapping computations with data transfers between CPU
and GPU. For instance, the GPU may remain idle as it awaits
a small yet crucial piece of data such as intermediate results
for the upcoming batch. At the same time, transferring the
weights for subsequent layers may take a long time and
potentially block both the GPU and CPU from processing
further tasks, leading to under-utilization of all the resources.
As a result, efficient MoE inference for throughput-oriented
workloads using limited GPU memory remains challenging.
We find that increasing I/O utilization and other resource uti-
lization is critical in achieving high throughput. For example,
1
arXiv:2411.11217v1  [cs.DC]  18 Nov 2024


===== PAGE 2 =====
Throughput
Batch Size(CPU Memory)
Existing Systemw/ their policy
Existing Systemw/ our policyMoE-Lightning
Figure 1. MoE-Lightning achieves higher throughput with
far less CPU memory, enabled by CGOPipe and HRM.
Fig. 1 illustrates the relationship between CPU memory and
achievable token generation throughput for different sys-
tems with fixed GPU memory (less than the model size) and
CPU-to-GPU memory bandwidth. When a layer’s weights
are loaded onto the GPU, a common strategy to increase
throughput is to process as many requests as possible to
amortize the I/O overhead of weights’ transfer [42]. How-
ever, this increases CPU memory usage as additional space
is required to store the KV cache for all requests. Conse-
quently, lower I/O utilization means higher I/O overhead of
weights’ transfer, requiring greater CPU memory to reach
peak generation performance; otherwise, the GPU will be
under-utilized as suggested by the blue line in Fig. 1.
While improving resource utilization is crucial for achiev-
ing high-throughput inference with limited GPU memory,
achieving this raises several challenges. First, we need to
effectively schedule the computation tasks running on CPU
and GPU, together with the transfers of various inputs (e.g.,
experts weights, hidden states, and KV cache), such that to
avoid computation tasks waiting for transfers or the other
way around. Second, as indicated by the orange line in Fig. 1,
the existing solutions [ 42] tend to generate sub-optimal
policies with smaller GPU batch sizes which lead to re-
source under-utilization. Fundamentally, these solutions fail
to take into account that changes in the workload can lead
to changes in the bottleneck resource.
To address these two challenges, we developed a new in-
ference system, MoE-Lightning, which consists of two new
components. The first component is CGOPipe, a pipeline
scheduling strategy that overlaps GPU computation, CPU
computation and various I/O events efficiently so that com-
putation is not blocked by I/O events and different I/O events
won’t block each other. This way,CGOPipe can significantly
improve the system utilization. The second component is
Hierarchical Roofline Model (HRM) which accurately
models how different components in an inference system
interact and affect application performance under various
operational conditions.
In summary, this paper makes the following contributions:
• CGOPipe, a pipeline scheduling strategy that effi-
ciently schedules various I/O events and overlaps CPU
and GPU computation with I/O events. By deploying
weights paging, CGOPipe reduces pipeline bubbles,
significantly enhancing throughput and I/O efficiency
compared with existing systems (§4.1).
• HRM, a general performance model for LLM inference
which extends the Roofline Model [48]. HRM can eas-
ily support different models, hardware, and workloads,
and has near-zero overhead in real deployments, with-
out the need for extensive data fitting (might take
hours or days) as needed in FlexGen (§4.2).
• An in-depth performance analysis for MoE models
based on our extended HRM which identifies various
performance regions where specific resource becomes
the bottleneck (§3).
We evaluate MoE-Lightning on various recent popular
MoE models (e.g., Mixtral 8x7b, Mixtral 8x22B, and DBRX)
on different hardware settings (e.g., L4, T4, 2xT4, and 4xT4
GPUs) using three real workloads. When compared to the
best of the existing systems, MoE-Lightning can improve
the generation throughput by up to 10.3× (without request
padding) and 3.5× (with request padding) on a single GPU.
When Tensor-parallelism is enabled,MoE-Lightning demon-
strates super-linear scaling in generation throughput (§5).
2 Background
2.1 Mixture of Experts
Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly improved
in performance due to the advancements in architecture
and scalable training methods. In particular, Mixture of Ex-
perts (MoE) models have shown remarkable improvements
in model capacity, training time, and model quality [10, 13,
22, 27, 41, 46], revitalizing an idea that dates back to the early
1990s [21, 23] where ensembles of specialized models are
used in conjunction with a gating mechanism to dynamically
select the appropriate “expert” for a given task.
The key idea behind MoE is a gating function that routes
inputs to specific experts within a larger neural network.
Each expert is specialized in handling particular types of
inputs. The gating function selects only a subset of experts
to process an input, which allows LLMs to scale the number
of parameters without increasing inference operations.
MoE models adopt a conventional LLM architecture, which
uses learned embeddings for tokens and stacked transformer
layers. MoE LLMs typically modify the Feed-Forward Net-
work (FFN) within a transformer layer by adding a gating
network that selects expert FFNs, usually implemented as
multi-layer perceptrons, to process the input token [6, 13, 57].
These designs can surpass traditional dense models [8, 10, 22]
in effectiveness while being more parameter-efficient and
cost-effective during training and inference.
2


===== PAGE 3 =====
Transformer
Mixture of ExpertsFeed-Forward Network
Token EmbeddingPositional Encoding
Add + Layer NormSelf Attention
RouterFFN 1FFN 2FFN N…Add + Layer NormLinear + SoftmaxOutput Token
Input Token
Figure 2. Architecture of a Mixture of Experts in Large
Language Models.
Despite their advantages, the widespread use of MoE mod-
els faces challenges due to the difficulties in managing and
deploying models with extremely high parameter counts
that demand substantial memory. Thus, our work aims to
make MoE models more accessible to those lacking extensive
high-end GPU resources.
2.2 LLM Inference
LLMs are trained to predict the conditional probability dis-
tribution for the next token, 𝑃 (𝑥𝑛+1 | 𝑥1, . . . , 𝑥𝑛), given a list
of input tokens (𝑥1, . . . , 𝑥𝑛). When deployed as a service, the
LLM takes in a list of tokens from a user request and gen-
erates an output sequence (𝑥𝑛+1, . . . , 𝑥𝑛+𝑇 ). The generation
process involves sequentially evaluating the probability and
sampling the token at each position for 𝑇 iterations. The
stage where the model generates the first token 𝑥𝑛+1 given
the initial list of tokens (𝑥1, . . . , 𝑥𝑛), is defined as the prefill
stage. In the prefill stage, at each layer, the input hidden
states to the attention block will be projected into the query,
key, and value vectors. The key and value vectors will be
stored in the KV cache. Following the prefill stage is the de-
code stage, where the model generates the remaining tokens
(𝑥𝑛+2, . . . , 𝑥𝑛+𝑇 ) sequentially. When generating token 𝑥𝑛+2,
all the KV cache of the previous tokens (𝑥1, . . . , 𝑥𝑛+1) will
be needed, and the token 𝑥𝑛+2’s key and value at each layer
will be appended to the KV cache.
The auto-regressive nature of LLM generation, where to-
kens are generated sequentially, can lead to sub-optimal
device utilization and decreased serving throughput [ 37].
Batching is a critical strategy for improving GPU utilization:
[51] proposed continuous batching which increases the serv-
ing throughput by orders of magnitude. Numerous studies
have developed methods to tackle associated challenges such
as memory fragmentation [26] and the heavy memory pres-
sure imposed by the KV cache [17, 24, 42]. The scenario of
limited GPU memory introduces further challenges, espe-
cially for large MoE models, as it requires transferring large
amounts of data between the GPU and CPU for various com-
putational tasks with distinct characteristics. Naive sched-
uling of the computation task and data transfer can result
in poor resource utilization. This paper explores how each
resource in a heterogeneous system affects LLM inference
performance and proposes efficient scheduling strategies
and system optimizations to enhance resource utilization.
3 Performance Analysis
In this section, we introduce a Hierarchical Roofline Model
(HRM) (§3.2) extended from the classical Roofline Model [48],
which we use to conduct a theoretical performance analy-
sis for MoE inference (§3.3). It also serves as the basics of
our performance model used in scheduling policy search,
which will be discussed in §4.2. The Hierarchical Roofline
Model extends the original Roofline Model for multicore
architectures [48] to provide a stronger model of hetero-
geneous computing devices and memory bandwidth. We
further identify two additional turning points that define
settings where the computation is best done on CPU instead
of GPU and where the application is GPU memory-bound
or CPU memory-bound, providing explicit explanations for
how LLM inference performance will be affected by different
resource limits in the system.
3.1 Roofline Model
We will start with the original Roofline Model [48], which
provides a visual performance model to estimate the perfor-
mance of a given application by showing inherent hardware
limitations and potential opportunities for optimizations. It
correlates a system’s peak performance and memory band-
width with the operational intensity of a given computa-
tion, where Operational Intensity (𝐼) denotes the ratio of the
number of operations in FLOPs performed to the number
of bytes accessed from memory, expressed in FLOPs/Bytes.
Performance (FLOPs/s)
Operational Intensity(FLOPs/Bytes)
The fundamental rep-
resentation in the Roofline
Model is a performance
graph, where the x-
axis represents oper-
ational intensity 𝐼 in
FLOPs/byte and the y-
axis represents perfor-
mance 𝑃 in FLOPs/sec. The model is graphically depicted by
two main components:
Memory Roof: It serves as the upper-performance limit
indicated by memory bandwidth. It is determined by the
product of the peak memory bandwidth (𝐵peak in Bytes/sec)
and the operational intensity (𝐼). Intuitively, if the data needed
for the computation is supplied slower than the computation
itself, the processor will idly wait for data, making mem-
ory bandwidth the primary bottleneck. The memory-bound
3


===== PAGE 4 =====
region (in blue) of the roofline is then represented by:
𝑃 ≤ 𝐵peak × 𝐼 (1)
where 𝑃 is the achievable performance.
Compute Roof: This represents the maximum perfor-
mance achievable limited by the machine’s peak computa-
tional capability (𝑃peak). It is a horizontal line on the graph
(top edge of the yellow region), independent of the opera-
tional intensity, indicating that when data transfer is not
the bottleneck, the maximum achievable performance is de-
termined by the processor’s computation capability. The
compute-bound part (yellow region) is then defined by:
𝑃 ≤ 𝑃peak (2)
The turning point is the intersection of the compute and
memory roofs, given by the equation:
¯𝐼 = 𝑃peak
𝐵peak
(3)
defines the critical operational intensity ¯𝐼. Applications with
𝐼 ≥ ¯𝐼 are typically compute-bound, while those with 𝐼 < ¯𝐼
are memory-bound.
In practice, analyzing an application’s placement on the
roofline model helps identify the critical bottleneck for per-
formance improvements. Recent works [52] analyze different
computations (e.g., softmax and linear projection) in LLM
using the Roofline Model.
3.2 Hierarchical Roofline Model
While the original Roofline Model demonstrates great power
for application performance analysis, it is not enough for
analyzing applications such as LLM inference that utilize
diverse computing resources (e.g., CPU and GPU) and move
data across multiple memory hierarchies (e.g., GPU HBM,
CPU DRAM, and Disk storage).
Consider a system with 𝑛 levels of memory hierarchies.
Each level 𝑖 in this hierarchy is coupled with a computing
processor. The peak bandwidth at which the processor at
level 𝑖 can access the memory at the same level is denoted by
𝐵𝑖
peak. Additionally, the peak performance of the processor
is denoted by 𝑃𝑖
peak
1.
Definition 3.1 (General Operational Intensity). To consider
different memory hierarchies, we define the general opera-
tional intensity 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 of the computation task 𝑥 as the ratio of
the number of operations in FLOPs performed by 𝑥 to the
number of bytes accessed from memory at level 𝑖.
For computation 𝑥 executed at level 𝑖 in the HRM, we
can define its compute and memory roofs similarly as in the
original Roofline Model:
• Compute Roof at level 𝑖:
𝑃𝑖
𝑥 ≤ 𝑃𝑖
peak (4)
1In this paper we assume when 𝑖 < 𝑗, 𝑃𝑖
peak ≥ 𝑃 𝑗
peak and 𝐵𝑖
peak ≥ 𝐵 𝑗
peak.
This represents the maximum computational capabil-
ity at level 𝑖, independent of the operational intensity.
• Memory Roof at level 𝑖:
𝑃𝑖
𝑥 ≤ 𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 (5)
More importantly, in HRM, there is also the memory band-
width from level 𝑗 to level 𝑖, denoted as 𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak, which will
define another memory roof for computation 𝑥 that is exe-
cuted on level 𝑖 and transfers data from level 𝑗:
• Memory Roof from level 𝑗 to 𝑖:
𝑃𝑖
𝑥 ≤ 𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 (6)
Therefore, if computation 𝑥 is executed on level 𝑖, data
from level 𝑗 needs to be fetched, and the peak performance
will be bounded by the three roofs listed above (Eqs. (4)–(6)):
𝑃𝑖
𝑥 = min(𝑃𝑖
peak, 𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥, 𝐵𝑗,𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 ) (7)
If operator 𝑥 is executed on level 𝑖 without fetching data
from other levels, it reduces to the traditional roofline model
and can achieve:
𝑃𝑖
𝑥 = min(𝑃𝑖
peak, 𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 ) (8)
Turning Points. Intuitively, our HRM introduces more
memory roofs that consider cross-level memory bandwidth
and compute roofs for diverse processors. This results in
more “turning points” than in the original Roofline Model,
which define various performance regions where different
resources are the bottleneck. Analyzing these turning points
is crucial for understanding the performance upper bound
of an application under different hardware setups and com-
putational characteristics.
For example, consider a computation task 𝑥 that has data
stored on level 𝑗, according to Eq. (6) and Eq. (8), when
𝑃 𝑗
𝑥 = min(𝑃 𝑗
peak, 𝐵𝑗
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 ) ≥ 𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥, we have 𝑃𝑖
𝑥 ≤
𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 ≤ 𝑃 𝑗
𝑥. Therefore, the first turning point 𝑃1 is at:
¯𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 =
min(𝑃 𝑗
peak, 𝐵𝑗
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 )
𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak
(9)
This gives the critical operational intensity ¯𝐼 𝑗
𝑥, indicating the
threshold below which it is not beneficial to transfer data
from level 𝑗 to 𝑖 for computation for 𝑥.
Now if we continue increasing 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 such that 𝑃 𝑗
𝑥 < 𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak ×
𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 ≤ min(𝑃𝑖
peak, 𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 ), then we obtain another turning
point 𝑃2:
¯𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 =
min(𝑃𝑖
peak, 𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 )
𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak
(10)
which denotes the critical operational intensity ¯𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 below
which computation 𝑥 is bounded by the memory bandwidth
from memory at level 𝑗 to memory at level 𝑖.
4


===== PAGE 5 =====
Balance Point. Further, if 𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 < 𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 < 𝑃𝑖
peak,
indicating that the computation𝑥 on level𝑖 is memory-bound
(refer to Eq. (3)). In this situation, further increasing 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 can-
not improve the system’s performance. Instead, we need to
increase 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥, and a balance point will be reached if:
𝐵𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑖
𝑥 = 𝐵 𝑗,𝑖
peak × 𝐼 𝑗
𝑥 (11)
Our performance model and policy optimizer (see §4.2) are
designed to find the maximum balance point under the device
memory constraints.
GPU Mem(24GB) GPU300GB/s
CPU Mem (192GB) CPU100GB/s
32GB/s
1.3TFlops/s
242TFlops/s
Figure 3. Hardware Configurations for the L4 Instance.
3.3 Case Study
To visualize the turning points and balance points discussed
in the preceding sections, we conduct a case study with real
HRM plots for computations2 in a single layer of the Mixtral
8x7B model on a Google Cloud Platform L4 instance. The
hardware setting is as detailed in Fig. 3. Specifically, we let
levels 𝑖 and 𝑗 represent GPU and CPU, respectively. Then,
we define the following:
Definition 3.2(Batch Size 𝑁 ). Batch size is the total number
of tokens processed by one pass of the whole model.
Definition 3.3 (Micro-Batch Size 𝜇). Since GPU memory is
limited, a batch of size 𝑁 often needs to be split into several
micro-batches of size 𝜇 to be processed by a single kernel
execution on GPU.
10−1 100 101 102 103 104
Operational Intensity (FLOPs/Byte)
101
102
103
104
105
106
Performance (GFLOPS/s)
P1
int4
f16
CPU Mem Bdw
GPU Mem Bdw
CPU-GPU Mem Bdw
CPU Peak FLOPS
GPU Peak FLOPS
Attention x DataT ype
Figure 4. Hierarchical Roofline Model for Mixtral 8x7B’s
Grouped Query Attention Block in Decode Stage on L4 In-
stance. (Context Length = 512)
2We only discuss the attention and feed-forward blocks since they account
for the majority of computation time and represent quite different compu-
tation characteristics.
Attention Block. Fig. 4 demonstrates the HRM plot for
Mixtral 8x7B’s attention computation3 assuming all the KV
cache are stored on CPU 4. On the plot, we have horizon-
tal lines as the compute roofs defined by CPU and GPU
peak performance. There are also the memory roofs defined
by CPU memory bandwidth, GPU memory bandwidth, and
CPU to GPU memory bandwidth, respectively. We then draw
vertical lines representing different operational intensities
for the attention computation with different KV cache data
types. Theoretically, attention’s operational intensity is in-
dependent of the batch size since its flops and bytes are
proportional to batch size. To increase the attention com-
putation’s operational intensity, we need methods such as
quantization [30, 38], Grouped Query Attention (GQA) [2],
or sparse attention [9]. All these methods try to reduce the
memory access needed by performing the attention compu-
tation, and GQA is used by most of the existing MoE models;
however, as denoted in the plot, for bothfloat16 and int45
the operational intensity is quite low and is smaller than𝑃1’s
corresponding operational intensity, which suggests it may
be better to perform attention on CPU.
MoE Feed-Forward Network (FFN). Fig. 5 is an HRM
plot for Mixtral 8x7B’s MoE Feed-Forward module on the
L4 instance. The orange line represents the MoE FFN kernel
performance achieved at a micro-batch size of 128. Vertical
lines intersecting with CPU roofs and CPU-GPU memory
roofs represent different batch sizes. FFN’s operational inten-
sity will increase as batch size or micro-batch size increases
since, intuitively, a larger batch size means more computa-
tion per weight access. As shown in the plot, suppose the
computation kernel for the MoE FFN can run at a maximum
𝜇 = 128, we can identify the turning point in Eq. (10) to be
𝑃2 and the turning point in Eq. (9) to be 𝑃1.
When 𝐼 is less than 𝑃1’s corresponding𝐼, there is no ben-
efit in swapping the data to GPU for computation since it
will be bounded by the memory roof from CPU to GPU. This
is normally the case for many latency-oriented applications
where users may only have one or two prompts to be pro-
cessed. In such scenarios, it is more beneficial to have a static
weights placement strategy (e.g., putting 𝑚 out of 𝑛 layers
on GPU) and perform the computation where the data is
located instead of swapping the weights back and forth.
Next, we show the peak performance will be finally reached
at a balance point (Eq. (11)). When 𝐼 is less than 𝑃2’s corre-
sponding 𝐼, the computation is bounded by the CPU to GPU
memory bandwidth, and it cannot achieve the performance
at 𝑃2. Depending on whether there is enough CPU memory
to hold a larger batch, we can either increase the batch size
or put some of the weights on the GPU statically since both
3Not including QKVO projection.
4For analysis purposes, we use the calculated theoretical operational inten-
sity instead of numbers from real profiling
5The computation is still done in float32.
5


===== PAGE 6 =====
10−1 100 101 102 103 104
Operational Intensity (FLOPs/Byte)
101
102
103
104
105
106
Performance (GFLOPS/s)
P1
μ=128 P2
N=32N=128 N=1024 N=16384
CPU Mem Bdw
GPU Mem Bdw
CPU-GPU Mem Bdw
CPU Peak FLOPS
GPU Peak FLOPS
Kernel Perf. at μ=128
MoE FFN x N
Figure 5. Hierarchical Roofline Model for Mixtral 8x7B’s
MoE Feed-Forward Block in Decode Stage on L4 Instance.
strategies can increase the operational intensity for the MoE
FFN computation regarding the data on the CPU.
If the batch size can be continually increased, then when𝐼
equals 𝑃2’s corresponding𝐼, the maximum performance that
can be achieved is bounded by the operator’s operational
intensity on GPU, which is dependent on the 𝜇 for the MoE
FFN kernels. Then, there is no need to increase 𝑁 anymore,
and the maximum performance reached at a balance point
equals 𝑃2. On the other hand, if we put more weights onto
GPU, 𝜇 will decrease since larger 𝜇 will result in higher peak
memory consumption. The maximum performance will be
achieved at a balance point smaller than 𝑃2.
In conclusion, to achieve high throughput for batched
MoE inference, we hope to place computations on proper
computing devices and find the best combination of 𝑁 and
𝜇 so that we can fully utilize all the system’s components.
4 Method
In general, we adopt the zigzag computation order proposed
in FlexGen [42]: loading the weights from CPU6 and perform-
ing the computation layer by layer. For the prefill stage, we
perform all the computation on GPU and offload KV cache to
CPU for all the micro-batches7. For the decode stage, within
each layer, we propose a fine-grained GPU-CPU-I/O pipeline
schedule (§4.1) to increase the utilization of GPU, CPU, and
I/O in decode stage. We also build a performance model (§4.2)
based on the HRM we extended from the Roofline Model to
help search for the best hyper-parameters for the pipeline
schedule, including the assignment of devices to perform
different computations, the batch size, the micro-batch size
and the ratio of weights to be placed on GPU statically. Note
that for the memory-constrained scenarios we target in this
6We do not consider disk offloading in this work.
7Since the prefill stage is normally compute-bound, and the computation
can be easily overlapped with I/O, we do not perform further optimization
for prefill stage.
paper, CPU attention is consistently better than GPU atten-
tion, according to our performance model. We also conduct
an ablation study in §6.3 to show how best policy changes
under different hardware configurations.
4.1 GPU-CPU-I/O Pipeline Schedule
Algorithm 1 CGOPipe
1: for 𝑑 = 1, 2, . . . 𝑔𝑒𝑛_𝑙𝑒𝑛 do
2: // Prologue
3: for 𝑗 = 1, 2 do
4: PreAttn(1, 𝑗 )
5: OffloadQKV(1, 𝑗 )
6: CPUAttn(1, 𝑗 )
7: W_CtoPin(2, 𝑗 )
8: for 𝑖 = 1, 2, . . . 𝑛𝑢𝑚_𝑙𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟𝑠 do
9: for 𝑗 = 1, 2, . . . 𝑛𝑢𝑚_𝑢𝑏𝑠 do
10: LoadH(𝑖, 𝑗 )
11: W_PintoG(𝑖 + 1, 𝑗 )
12: PostAttn(𝑖, 𝑗 )
13: // Launch CPUAttn two batches ahead
14: PreAttn(𝑖, 𝑗 + 2)
15: OffloadQKV(𝑖, 𝑗 + 2)
16: CPUAttn(𝑖, 𝑗 + 2)
17: W_CtoPin(𝑖 + 1, 𝑗 + 2)
Pipeline scheduling is a common approach to maximize
compute and I/O resource utilization. Yet, the pipeline con-
cerning GPU, CPU, and I/O is not trivial. In traditional pipeline
parallelism for deep learning training [16, 18, 34], models are
divided into stages which are assigned to different devices.
Therefore, only output activations are transferred between
stages, resulting in a single type of data transfer in each direc-
tion at a time. In our scenario, both weights and intermediate
results need to be transferred between GPU and CPU. Inter-
mediate results are required immediately after computation
to avoid blocking subsequent operations, whereas weights
for the next layer are needed only after all micro-batches for
the current layer are processed. Additionally, weight trans-
fers typically take significantly longer than intermediate
results. Consequently, naive scheduling of I/O events can
lead to low I/O utilization, which also hinders computation.
CGOPipe. Fig. 6 demonstrates our proposed CGOPipe and
the other three scheduling strategies adopted in existing sys-
tems. CGOPipe employs CPU attention as analyzed in §3.3,
alongside a weight paging scheme that interleaves the trans-
fer of intermediate results for upcoming micro-batches with
paged weight transfers to optimize computation and commu-
nication overlap. The GPU sequentially processes the post-
attention tasks (primarily O projection and MoE FFN) for
the current micro-batch, followed by the pre-attention tasks
(mainly layer norm and QKV projection) for the next micro-
batch. Concurrently, the CPU handles attention (specifically
the softmax part) for the next batch, and a page of weights
for the subsequent layer are transferred to the GPU.
6


===== PAGE 7 =====
A1A2
B1 B2
C1 A3
B3
C2 A1' C3 A2'
B1'
W W
Paged Weights
Ax Pre-Attention for micro-batch x
Bx Attention for micro-batch x
Cx Post-Attention for micro-batch x
Hidden HtoD
QKV DtoH
Weights Transfer
W
A1A2
B1 B2
C1 A3
B3
C2 A1' C3 A2'
B1'
W
C1'
W'
A3'
B2'
C1'
... W
B2'
A1 A2
B1 B2
C1 A3
B3
C2
W ... W
C3 A1'
B1'
C1'
Un-Paged Weights
Un-Paged Weights
GPU
CPU
DtoH
HtoD
GPU
CPU
DtoH
HtoD
GPU
CPU
DtoH
HtoD
CGOPipe
Pipeline
w/o
Paged
Weights
w/o
Pipeline
w/o
Paged
Weights
Time
Ax' denotes pre-attention for micro-batch
x in next layer, similar for others
A1 A2C1 A3C2
... W
C3 A1' C1'
Un-Paged Weights
GPU
CPU
DtoH
HtoD
w/o CPU
Attention
w/o
Paged
Weights
KV cache Transfer
KV cache 2 KV cache 3 KV cache 1' WFlexGen
FlexGen(c)
FastDecode*
MoE-Lightning
Figure 6. Different Scheduling Strategies: Square sizes vary with workloads and policies. For example, larger 𝜇 or longer
sequences lengthen the orange (attention) and the green (KV cache transfer from CPU to GPU) squares. Squares with red
zigzag lines indicate the unnecessary GPU idle times. *FastDecode [17] dose not consider weights offloading.
FlexGen [42] primarily employs the fourth schedule (S4),
where attention is performed on GPU and the KV cache for
the next micro-batch is prefetched during the current com-
putation. This approach results in higher KV cache transfer
latency than performing attention directly on the CPU (§3.3)
and consumes I/O bandwidth that could otherwise be used
for weight transfers, reducing resource utilization compared
to CGOPipe. FlexGen also supports CPU attention and adopts
the third schedule (S3), which is the least optimized and may
even perform worse than S4 if KV cache transfer latency is
less than the sum of pre-attention, post-attention, and CPU
attention latencies, as later shown by our evaluation results
(§5). FastDecode [17] suggests overlapping CPU attention
with GPU computation, similar to the second schedule (S2).
However, it does not target memory-constrained settings, so
weight transfer scheduling is not considered.
Weights Paging and Data Transfer Scheduling. To fully
utilize the I/O, we propose a weights paging scheme to inter-
leave the data transfer for different tasks, reducing bubbles
in the I/O. There are mainly four kinds of data transfer:
• D 1 (QKV DtoH): the intermediate results to be trans-
ferred from GPU to CPU after QKV projection.
• D 2 (Hidden HtoD): the hidden states to be transferred
from CPU to GPU after the CPU attention.
• D 3 (Weights Transfer): the weights for the next layer
to be transferred from CPU to GPU.
• D 4 (KV cache Transfer): the KV cache for the next
micro-batch to be transferred from CPU to GPU.
Due to independent data paths, data transfers in opposite
directions can happen simultaneously. Data transfer will be
performed sequentially in the same direction. The challenge
then mainly lies in the scheduling of D2, D3 and D4, which
are all from CPU to GPU. For the case without CPU atten-
tion (S4), while D4 usually takes a similar or longer time
compared with a layer’s computation, the I/O bandwidth is
almost fully utilized, leaving little room for more efficient
scheduling for data transfer. As we can see from the dia-
gram of S2 and S3, conducting the weights transfer as a
whole will block the next layer’s first D2 for a long time,
resulting in poor overall system efficiency. Instead, we can
chunk the weights to be transferred into 𝑛 pages where 𝑛
equals the number of micro-batches in the pipeline, and the
performance model and optimizer (§4.2) select the proper
micro-batch size, batch size and the proportion of weights
to be transferred from CPU to GPU.
Algorithm 1 provides the order in which the main CPU
task launcher thread launches the tasks to enable CGOPipe.
All the tasks are executed asynchronously, and necessary
synchronization primitives are added to each task to enforce
the correct data dependency.
4.2 Search Space and Performance Model
Given a hardware configuration H, a model configuration
M, and a workload configuration W, we search for the opti-
mal policy P that minimizes per-layer latency𝑇 (M, H, W, P)
for the pipeline schedule in §4.1, without violating the CPU
and GPU memory constraints, in order to reach the optimal
balance point (Eq. (11)). Compared with FlexGen, we exclude
disk-related variables from the search space and add two
binaries to indicate whether to perform attention or MoE
FFN on GPU.
7


===== PAGE 8 =====
Table 1. Notations for the Performance Model Configuration
Notation Description
Hardware Configurations, H
𝑚𝑔, 𝑚𝑐 GPU, CPU memory
𝑏𝑔, 𝑏𝑐, 𝑏𝑐𝑔 GPU, CPU, CPU-GPU bandwidth
𝑝𝑔, 𝑝𝑐 GPU, CPU FLOPS
Model Configurations, M
𝑙 Number of layers
ℎ1, ℎ2 Model, Intermediate hidden dimensions
𝑛𝑞, 𝑛𝑘𝑣 Query, Key/Value heads in attention
𝑛𝑒, 𝑘 Number of experts, Top-k routing
𝑑𝑡 Data type (e.g., float32)
Workload Configurations, W
𝑠 Average Prompt Length
𝑛 Generation Length
Policy, P
𝑁 , 𝜇 Batch, Micro Batch Size
𝐹𝑔, 𝐴𝑔 GPU Attention/MoE FFN Indicator
𝑟𝑤, 𝑟𝑐 Ratio of Weights/KV Cache Stored on GPU
The search space (Tab. 1) covers 2 integer values: the micro-
batch size (𝜇) and batch size (𝑁 ), 2 binary indicators 𝐴𝑔 to
indicate whether to perform the attention on GPU and 𝐹𝑔 to
indicate whether to perform the MoE FFN on GPU. When
𝐹𝑔 = 1, we also need to decide the percent of weights𝑟𝑤 that
can be statically stored on GPU and the percent of weights
1 − 𝑟𝑤 that need to be transferred to GPU. Similarly, for
𝐴𝑔 = 1, we need to decide 𝑟𝑐. The generated policy will be a
6-tuple (𝑁 , 𝜇, 𝐴𝑔, 𝐹𝑔, 𝑟𝑤 , 𝑟𝑐 ). For our major setting, we always
get 𝐴𝑔 = 0 and 𝐹𝑔 = 1. However, we discuss in §6.3 different
policies for various hardware settings. Notably, CGOPipe
is primarily designed for 𝐴𝑔 = 0 and when 𝐴𝑔 = 1, MoE-
Lightning adopt S4.
We then build the performance model based on Eq. (7) and
Eq. (8) in HRM to estimate per-layer decode latency 𝑇 by:
𝑇 (M, H, W, P) = max(𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑐𝑝𝑢 _𝑡𝑜 _𝑔𝑝𝑢, 𝑇𝑐𝑝𝑢 , 𝑇𝑔𝑝𝑢 ) (12)
where 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑐𝑝𝑢 _𝑡𝑜 _𝑔𝑝𝑢 can be computed as the number
of bytes needed to be transferred from CPU to GPU for a
layer’s computation divided by the CPU to GPU memory
bandwidth 𝑏𝑐𝑔. Here, for simplicity, we only consider the
attention computation and the MoE FFN computation in a
transformer block, and therefore we have:
𝑇𝑔𝑝𝑢 = 𝑇 𝑔
𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑛 + 𝑇 𝑔
𝑓 𝑓 𝑛 , 𝑇𝑐𝑝𝑢 = 𝑇 𝑐
𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑛 + 𝑇 𝑐
𝑓 𝑓 𝑛 (13)
To estimate the time to perform a computation 𝑥 on GPU
or CPU, we can use 𝑇𝑥 = max(𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑥, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑥 ) according to
Eq. (8) in HRM, resulting in:
𝑇 𝑔
𝑓 𝑓 𝑛 = max(𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑔
𝑓 𝑓 𝑛, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑔
𝑓 𝑓 𝑛 ) (14)
and similarly for 𝑇 𝑔
𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑛 , 𝑇 𝑐
𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑛 and 𝑇 𝑐
𝑓 𝑓 𝑛.
For a given computation 𝑥, we can calculate their theo-
retical FLOPS and data transfer based on M and then we
have 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑔
𝑥 = 𝑏𝑦𝑡𝑒𝑠 𝑥 /𝑏𝑔 and 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝 𝑔
𝑥 = 𝑓 𝑙𝑜𝑝𝑠 𝑥 /𝑝𝑔 (same for
CPU). While there are discrepancies between the theoretical
performance estimation and the kernel’s real performance,
such modeling can provide a reasonable estimation of the
relative effectiveness of any two policies. In this paper, all
the evaluation results of MoE-Lightning follow policies gen-
erated by a performance model with theoretically calculated
computation flops and bytes with profiled peak performance
and memory bandwidth for the hardware.
4.3 Tensor Parallelism
In existing works [42], pipeline parallelism is used for scal-
ing beyond a single GPU, which requires the number of
devices to scale with the model depth instead of the layer
size. However, according to our analysis for MoE models
in §3.3, Total GPU memory capacity can decide the upper
bound throughput the system can achieve. Therefore, MoE-
Lightning implements tensor parallelism [35] within a single
node to get a higher throughput upper bound. In this case,
we have 𝑡𝑝 _𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 times more GPU memory capacity and GPU
memory bandwidth, we can then search for the policy simi-
larly as for single GPU.
5 Evaluation
5.1 Setup
Table 2. Model and Hardware Configurations.
Setting Model GPU CPU (Intel Xeon)
S1 Mixtral 8x7B 1xT4 (16G) 2.30GHz, 24-core, 192GB
S2 Mixtral 8x7B 1xL4 (24G) 2.20GHz, 24-core, 192GB
S6 Mixtral 8x22B 2xT4 (32G) 2.30GHz, 32-core, 416GB
S7 Mixtral 8x22B 4xT4 (64G) 2.30GHz, 32-core, 416GB
S8 DBRX 2xT4 (32G) 2.30GHz, 32-core, 416GB
S9 DBRX 4xT4 (64G) 2.30GHz, 32-core, 416GB
Table 3. Workload Configurations.
Dataset 𝑠avg 𝑠max 𝑙
MTBench [55] 77 418 32, 64, 128, 256
Synthetic Reasoning [29] 242 256 50
Summarization [29] 1693 1984 64
Implementation. We build MoE-Lightning on top of Py-
Torch [36], vLLM [26] and SGLang [56], written in Python
and C++. We implement customized CPU Grouped Query
Attention (GQA) kernels based on Intel’s MKL library [20].
Models. We evaluate three popular MoE models: Mixtral
8x7B [22], Mixtral 8x22B [32], and DBRX (132B, 16 Experts) [46].
Although not evaluated, MoE-Lightning also supports other
models compatible with vLLM [26]’s model classes.
Hardware. We conduct tests on various hardware settings,
including a single NVIDIA T4 GPU (16GB), a single NVIDIA
L4 GPU (24GB) and multiple T4 GPUs. We evaluate 6 differ-
ent model and hardware settings as shown in Tab. 2.
8


===== PAGE 9 =====
0
25
50
75
100Throughput (tokens/s)
12.1 12.3 9.5 9.69.8 9.4 7.2 6.87.1 7.6 7.8 6.7
15.6
1.3x 24.0
2.0x 30.1
3.2x 33.9
3.5x
63.0
101.3 97.73 96.7
MTBench @ S1
0
100
200
300
29.2 34.9 37.2 28.817.5 18.9 20.0 15.912.7 13.3 12.1 11.8
53.7
1.8x 67.4
1.9x 79.0
2.1x
78.6
2.7x
203.0
294.5
217.5
167.9
MTBench @ S2
32 64 128 256
Generation Length
0
2
4
6
8
10Throughput (tokens/s)
4.25 4.4 4.77
3.66
2.7 2.86
3.44 3.09
0.56 0.59 0.61 0.62
5.38
1.3x
7.33
1.7x 7.75
1.6x
9.13
2.5x
MTBench @ S6
32 64 128 256
Generation Length
0
10
20
30
4.97 5.31 4.36 2.961.78 0.97 1.02 0.670.9 1.0 1.2 1.3
14.9
3.0x
22.4
4.2x
26.2
6.0x
25.8
8.7x
MTBench @ S7
FlexGen FlexGen(c) DeepSpeed-Zero MoE-Lightning(p) MoE-Lightning
Figure 7. End-to-end Results for MTBench on Different Model-Hardware Configurations. Normally, MoE-Lightning’s perfor-
mance will be much higher than MoE-Lightning (p) since padding will lead to higher memory consumption and attention
computation overhead8. Here MoE-Lightning achieves up to 10.3× higher throughput than FlexGen under S1 and S2.
Table 4. Performance for HELM tasks under S1 & S2
Synthetic Reasoning Summarization
Settings S1 S2 S1 S2
Throughput 𝜇 𝑁 /𝜇 Throughput 𝜇 𝑁 /𝜇 Throughput 𝜇 𝑁 /𝜇 Throughput 𝜇 𝑁 /𝜇
FlexGen(c) 16.903 32 61 20.015 64 33 2.614 3 92 4.307 8 36
FlexGen 22.691 32 61 50.138 64 33 3.868 3 92 7.14 8 36
DeepSpeed 11.832 102 1 18.589 156 1 0.965 8 1 1.447 12 1
MoE-Lightning(p) 26.349 36 26 105.29 100 15 4.52 4 19 12.393 8 36
Workloads.We use popular LLM benchmarks with different
prompt length distributions to evaluate our system, as shown
in Tab. 3. MTBench [55] includes 80 high-quality multi-turn
questions across various categories like writing and reason-
ing. We replicate it into thousands of questions for our batch
inference use case. We test various output token lengths for
MTBench, from 32, 64, 128, to 256 tokens. We also pick two
tasks (i.e., synthetic reasoning and summarization), from
the HELM benchmarks [29] to test our system with longer
prompt lengths.
Baselines. We evaluateMoE-Lightning and MoE-Lightning’s
variant, comparing them against two baseline systems that
support running LLMs without enough GPU memory: Flex-
Gen [42] and DeepSpeed Zero-Inference [4].
• FlexGen [ 42] is the state-of-the-art offloading sys-
tem that targets high-throughput batch inference for
OPT [53] models. It does not support variable prompt
length in a batch and needs to pad all the requests to
the maximum prompt length in the batch.
• FlexGen(c) is FlexGen enabling CPU attention.
• DeepSpeed Zero-Inference [4] is an offloading system
that pins model weights to CPU memory and streams
them layer-by-layer to GPU for computation. We use
version 0.14.3 in the evaluation.
• MoE-Lightning represents our system with all the
optimizations enabled.
• MoE-Lightning (p) represents our system running
with requests padded to the maximum prompt length
in the batch to compare with FlexGen.
Metrics. We measure the generation throughput for each
workload, which is calculated as the number of tokens gen-
erated divided by total generation time (i.e., prefill time +
decode time).
5.2 End-to-end Results on Real Workloads
We evaluate the maximum generation throughput for all
baseline systems on three workloads under S1, S2, S6, and S7
settings. As shown in Fig. 7 and Tab. 4, MoE-Lightning (p)
outperforms all baselines in all settings, and MoE-Lightning
achieves up to 10.3× better throughput compared with the
9


===== PAGE 10 =====
best of the baselines for MTBench and HELM benchmark. In
the following sections, we analyze how MoE-Lightning (p)
outperforms our baselines by integrating the key methods
from §4.2.
Generation Length. While longer lengths allow for better
amortization of the prefill time which increases throughput,
they also lead to higher CPU memory usage and additional
attention computation or KV cache transfer overheads. This
increased memory demand can limit the maximum batch
size, reducing throughput. Moreover, the increase in compu-
tation or KV cache transfers can make attention the main
bottleneck. Typically, throughput first increases with longer
generation length and then decreases.
We observe this pattern for FlexGen and FlexGen(c) in all
settings. However, MoE-Lightning (p) avoids a decrease in
throughput under S1 and S6, which feature similar ratios
of GPU to CPU memory. We attribute this performance im-
provement to CGOPipe, which significantly improves the
resource utilization and renders the system GPU memory
capacity bound in these settings.
On a single GPU (S1 and S2), MoE-Lightning (p) achieves
up to 3.5×, 5×, and 6.7× improvement over FlexGen, Flex-
Gen(c), and DeepSpeed, respectively.
Prompt Length. In the HELM tasks, we examine the im-
pact of varying prompt lengths on generation throughput.
Increasing the prompt length not only raises CPU mem-
ory consumption and attention overhead, but also leads to
greater GPU peak memory usage during the prefill stage.
Consequently, systems handling the summarization task
with a 2k prompt length are bottlenecked by either GPU
memory capacity or attention processes (see the ablation
study in §6.3 for a detailed discussion on bottlenecks). Under
S1, MoE-Lightning (p) achieves a 1.16 × and 1.73× higher
throughput than FlexGen and FlexGen(c), respectively, de-
spite using a batch size that is 3.63 × smaller, enabled by
CGOPipe. DeepSpeed, utilizing a larger micro-batch size
but the smallest batch size, is primarily constrained by the
overhead of weight transfers. Under S2, with increased GPU
memory, MoE-Lightning (p) adjusts to use a larger 𝜇 and 𝑁 ,
reaching a new balance point (Eq. (11)), while FlexGen and
FlexGen(c) are unable to increase 𝑁 from their S1 settings
due to CPU memory limitations. As a result, MoE-Lightning
(p) now achieves an even higher throughput improvement:
1.74× and 2.88× higher than FlexGen and FlexGen(c), re-
spectively. This superior performance is attributed to MoE-
Lightning (p)’s efficient resource utilization.
The synthetic reasoning task enables all systems to have
a larger micro-batch size due to the shorter prompt length.
Under S1, MoE-Lightning (p) achieves a 1.16×, 1.56×, 2.22×
higher throughput than FlexGen, FlexGen(c) and DeepSpeed
8We only show MoE-Lightning’s results for S1 and S2 and omit them for S6
and S7 to focus on the comparison of the main optimizations we proposed
in this paper.
respectively. Under S2, MoE-Lightning (p) finds a better bal-
ance point and uses less batch size than FlexGen, achieving
2.1× and 5.26× higher throughput compared to FlexGen and
FlexGen(c), demonstrating the efficiency of CGOPipe and
HRM.
5.3 Tensor Parallelism
This section evaluates MoE-Lightning’s ability to run on
multiple GPUs with tensor parallelism. As shown in S1 and
S2, due to our efficient resource utilization,MoE-Lightning’s
throughput is predominantly bounded by GPU memory ca-
pacity. This shows that increasing GPU memory can raise
the system’s throughput upper bound.
32 64 128 256
Generation Length
0
20
40
60
80
100Throughput (tokens/s)
34.04 36.24
29.67 25.86
71.54
83.58 82.98
59.45
2xT4
4xT4
Figure 8. MoE-Lightning with Tensor-Parallelism for MT-
Bench @ S8 & S9.
S6 and S7 in Fig. 7 show the end-to-end throughput re-
sults on Mixtral 8x22B of MoE-Lightning (p), FlexGen, and
DeepSpeed on MTBench for multiple T4 GPUs. Notably,
MoE-Lightning (p) achieves 2.77-3.38× higher throughput
with 4xT4 GPUs than with 2xT4 GPUs, demonstrating super-
linear scaling performance. DeepSpeed demonstrates a linear-
scaling performance but uses a small batch size of 32, result-
ing in low throughput. FlexGen fails to scale under settings
S6 and S7, largely due to the pipeline parallelism approach
it employs. In this method, when using 4 GPUs, during the
saturated phase, four layers are simultaneously active across
four GPUs, increasing CPU peak memory consumption. As a
result, FlexGen is bottlenecked by the CPU to GPU memory
bandwidth and fails to take advantage of the added GPUs.
Note that pipeline parallelism is more effective across multi-
ple GPU nodes. In such configurations, doubling the number
of GPUs also doubles the CPU to GPU bandwidth, the CPU
memory capacity, and the CPU memory bandwidth9.
Fig. 8 demonstrates MoE-Lightning’s generation through-
put results on DBRX to showcase the performance when
all optimizations are enabled (CGOPipe, HRM and variable
length prompts). For the DBRX model and without request
padding (i.e., shorter prompt length), the system becomes
less GPU memory capacity bound. We can see 2.1-2.8× im-
provement when scaling from 2 GPUs to 4 GPUs.
9In this paper, we focus on the cases within one node.
10


===== PAGE 11 =====
6 Ablation Study
6.1 Optimizer Policy
In this section, we compareMoE-Lightning (p), FlexGen with
its policy and FlexGen with our policy. For this experiment,
we do not turn on the CPU attention for FlexGen as it is
consistently worse than FlexGen w/o CPU attention. We
use the workload from MTBench on the S1 setting with a
generation length of 128. The results are displayed in Tab. 5.
By deploying our policy, we can see a1.77× improvement in
FlexGen. We also increase the batch size to better amortize
the weights transfer overhead and it gives a 2.17× speedup.
However, it still cannot match MoE-Lightning’s throughput
under the same policy, as KV cache swapping becomes the
bottleneck for FlexGen in this case.
Table 5. Generation throughput for MoE-Lightning and
different variants of FlexGen. (MTBench@S1, Generation
length=128)
𝜇 𝑁 Throughput (token/s)
FlexGen w/ their policy 8 1112 9.5
FlexGen w/ our policy 36 504 16.816 ( 1.77×)
FlexGen w/ our policy + larger 𝑁 36 1116 20.654 ( 2.17×)
MoE-Lightning (p) 36 504 30.12 ( 3.17×)
6.2 CPU Attention vs. Experts FFN vs. KV Transfer
In this section, we study when CPU attention will become
the bottleneck in the decode stage. For different batch sizes
(from 32 to 256), we test the latency of the MoE FFN kernel
on L4 GPU and compare it with the latency of the CPU atten-
tion kernel on a 24-core Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU @ 2.20GHz
with various context lengths (from 128 to 2048). Addition-
ally, we also measure the latency for swapping the KV cache
needed for the attention from CPU pinned memory to GPU
to validate the efficiency of our CPU GQA kernel.
As shown in Fig. 9, our CPU attention kernel is 3 − 4×
faster than KV cache transfer, which is close to the ratio
of CPU memory bandwidth and the CPU to GPU memory
bandwidth. The MoE FFN’s latency doesn’t change so much
across different micro batch sizes, which is as expected since
the kernel is memory-bound for the decode stage. As the
micro-batch size and context length increase, the CPU atten-
tion will eventually become the bottleneck, which calls for
higher CPU memory bandwidth.
6.3 Case Study on Different Hardware Settings
In this section, we study how the best policy changes un-
der different hardware settings. As we have shown in the
previous ablation study, CPU attention can actually become
the bottleneck for large batch size and context length, which
means if we have more powerful GPUs, at some point, CPU
attention may not be worth it. Moreover, if we have higher
128 256 512 1024 2048
Context Length
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020Latency (seconds)
Micro Batch Size: 32
128 256 512 1024 2048
Context Length
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04Latency (seconds)
Micro Batch Size: 64
128 256 512 1024 2048
Context Length
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08Latency (seconds)
Micro Batch Size: 128
128 256 512 1024 2048
Context Length
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175Latency (seconds)
Micro Batch Size: 256
MoE FFN KV Transfer CPU Attention
Figure 9. Latency Comparison for a single layer’s KV cache
transfer, CPU Attention Kernel and the MoE FFN Kernel wrt.
𝜇 and Context Length in Decode Stage.
CPU to GPU memory bandwidth, the trade-offs will also
change. Then the question becomes: when we have enough
GPU memory (e.g., 2xA100-80G) to hold the model weights
(e.g., Mixtral 8x7B), is it still beneficial to perform CPU com-
putation or to offload weights/KV cache to the CPU? To
conduct the analysis, we use 2xA100-80G for the GPU speci-
fication and vary the CPU to GPU memory bandwidth from
100 to 500 GB/s alongside different CPU capabilities. We set
base CPU specifications at 𝑚𝑐 = 200GB/s, 𝑏𝑐 = 100GB, and
𝑝𝑐 = 1.6TFLOPS/s, scaling these values by multiplying with
the CPU scaling ratio for various configurations10.
2 4 6 8 10
CPU Scaling Ratio
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500CPU-GPU Bandwidth
Ratio of Weights on CPU
2 4 6 8 10
CPU Scaling Ratio
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500CPU-GPU Bandwidth
Ratio of KV Cache on CPU
0.00
0.15
0.30
0.45
0.60
0.75
0.90
0.00
0.15
0.30
0.45
0.60
0.75
0.90
Figure 10. Policy changes with different hardware config-
urations (prompt length=512, generation length=32). Red
points denote performing attention on the CPU.
We can see that when running Mixtral 8x7B on two A100
GPUs, as CPU-to-GPU memory bandwidth increases, more
weight will be offloaded to the CPU. KV cache offloading is
highly related to the CPU scaling ratio in this setup: when the
10Note that this setup doesn’t reflect real-world hardware scaling; rather,
it simplifies the number of variables to offer a rough idea of how these
hardware configurations might impact performance.
11


===== PAGE 12 =====
CPU scaling ratio is low (i.e., low CPU memory bandwidth),
even with the highest CPU to GPU memory bandwidth tested
here, it is not beneficial to offload KV cache.
7 Related Work
Memory-constriant LLM Inference LLM inference re-
quires substantial memory to store model parameters and
computation outputs, making it typically memory capacity-
bound. There is a line of research dedicated to memory-
constraint LLM inference. This is particularly crucial for
inference hardware such as desktop computers, or low-end
cloud instances with limited computational power and mem-
ory capacity. To facilitate inference on such constrained sys-
tems, some work leverages sparsity or neuro activation pat-
terns to intelligent offloading between CPU and GPU [ 15,
42, 43, 50]. Some approaches utilize not only DRAM but also
flash memory to expand the available memory resources [3].
Additionally, since the CPU often remains underutilized dur-
ing inference, it can be harnessed to perform complementary
computations [25, 43, 49].
LLM Inference Throughput Optimization To enhance
inference throughput, some research focuses on maximizing
the sharing of computations between sequences to minimize
redundant processing of identical tokens [24, 56]. Another
approach involves batching requests [51] to optimize hard-
ware utilization. Additionally, some studies develop paged
memory methods for managing the key-value (KV) cache
to reduce memory waste, thereby increasing the effective
batch size and further improving throughput [26]. FastDe-
code [ 17] proposes aggregating memory and computing
power of CPUs across multiple nodes to process the attention
part to boost GPU throughput. Compared with FastDecode,
we are targeting the memory-constrained case where the
model weights also need to be transferred between CPU and
GPU, making the optimization and scheduling problem far
more challenging.
LLM Inference Latency Optimization To reduce LLM in-
ference latency, some work addresses the inherent slowness
caused by the autoregressive nature of LLM inference by
developing fast decoding methods, such as speculative de-
coding [5, 28, 44] and parallel decoding [39], which generate
multiple tokens simultaneously. Another approach aims to
decrease inference latency by implementing efficient com-
putational kernels [1, 11, 12] designed to minimize memory
access and maximize GPU utilization.
8 Conclusion
We present MoE-Lightning, a high-throughput MoE infer-
ence system for GPU-constrained scenarios. MoE-Lightning
can achieve up to 10.3× (without request padding) and 3.5×
(with request padding) higher throughput over state-of-the-
art systems on a single GPU and demonstrate super-linear
scaling on multiple GPUs, enabled by CGOPipe and HRM.
CGOPipe is a novel pipeline scheduling strategy to improve
resource utilization, and HRM is a performance model based
on a Hierarchical Roofline Model that we extend from the
classical Roofline Model to find policies with higher through-
put upper bound.
A System Implementation Details
In this section, we explain two system-level designs and
their implementation details: 1. Appendix A.1 introduces
how GPU and CPU memory are used and weights paging
is implemented in MoE-Lightning, and 2. Appendix A.2
presents the batching algorithm employed inMoE-Lightning
to support dynamic-length requests in a batch.
A.1 Memory Management
Since attention is performed on CPU, the KV cache for all
micro-batches will be transferred to and stored on CPU af-
ter the corresponding computation completes. To enable
CGOPipe, we allocate a weight buffer with a size of 2 ×
𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑜 𝑓 (𝑊𝐿), where 𝑊𝐿 denotes the size of the portion of
a layer’s weights stored in CPU memory. This buffer en-
ables overlapping weight prefetching: as the current layer’s
weights are being used, the next layer’s weights are simulta-
neously transferred to GPU memory.
Weights are transferred in a paged manner. For exam-
ple in Fig. 11, each expert in the MoE FFN kernel requires
two pages, and the kernel accesses the appropriate pages
using a page table. To accelerate transfers from CPU to GPU,
weights are first moved from CPU memory to pinned mem-
ory, and then from pinned memory to GPU. These transfers
are overlapped to hide latency. As illustrated in Fig. 11, while
transferring Weights 2 for Layer 2 from pinned memory
to GPU, Weights 4 for the same layer can be transferred
concurrently from CPU to pinned memory.
Weights 1
Weights 2
Weights  3
Weights  4
1
2
3
4
Weights 2
Weights  3
Weights  4
1
2
3
4
PinnedMemory
1
2
3
4
CPU Memory
GPU Memory
Layer 0 Layer 1 Layer 2
KV 1
KV 2
KV 1
KV 2
KV 1
KV 2
Intermediate Tensors
KV 3 KV 3 KV 3
KV 4 KV 4 KV 4
1
4
1
2
MoE FFN Kernel
Experts idxPage idx
1
2
4,5
6,7
3
Read
Figure 11. Simplified Demonstration of MoE-Lightning’s
Memory Management.
A.2 Request Batching
For a given workload, the optimizer introduced in §4.2 takes
the average prompt length to search for an optimal policy.
12


===== PAGE 13 =====
However, maintaining a consistent micro-batch size becomes
challenging due to varying input lengths across requests. To
address this, we employ the strategy outlined in Algorithm 2
to achieve balanced token distribution. In essence, requests
are sorted by input length in descending order and assigned
to micro-batches by iteratively placing the longest request
into the micro-batch with the fewest tokens. This approach
ensures that all micro-batches have a size close to the 𝑢𝑏𝑠
specified by the generated policy.
Algorithm 2 Request Batching
Input: 𝑟𝑒𝑞 _𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒: Queue of requests
Input: 𝑛_𝑢𝑏: Number of micro-batches
Input: 𝑢𝑏𝑠: Maximum number of requests per micro-
batches
Input: 𝑔𝑒𝑛_𝑙𝑒𝑛: Generation length per request
Input: 𝑐𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒_𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 : Maximum cache size per micro-batches
Output: 𝑚𝑖𝑐𝑟𝑜 _𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑠 : List of micro-batches
Output: 𝑎𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑑 _𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 : List of aborted requests to be
added to the next batch
1: for 𝑖 ← 1 to 𝑛_𝑢𝑏 do
2: 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 [𝑖] ← ∅
3: 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 _𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑠 [𝑖] ← 0
4: Sort(𝑟𝑒𝑞 _𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒, 𝑘𝑒𝑦 = 𝜆𝑥 . 𝑥 .𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡_𝑙𝑒𝑛, 𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑒 = 𝑇 𝑟𝑢𝑒)
5: for all 𝑟𝑒𝑞 ∈ 𝑟𝑒𝑞 _𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒 do
6: if 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 == ∅then
7: 𝑎𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑑 _𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 += 𝑟𝑒𝑞
8: 𝑖𝑑𝑥 ← arg min(𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 _𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑠)
9: if (𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 _𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑥 ] + 𝑟𝑒𝑞.𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡 _𝑙𝑒𝑛 ) + ( 1 +
|𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑥 ] |) × 𝑔𝑒𝑛_𝑙𝑒𝑛 > 𝑐𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒_𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 then
10: 𝑎𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑑 _𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 += 𝑟𝑒𝑞
11: else
12: 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑥 ] + = 𝑟𝑒𝑞
13: 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 _𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑥 ] + = 𝑟𝑒𝑞.𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡 _𝑙𝑒𝑛
14: if |𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑥 ] | == 𝑢𝑏𝑠 then
15: 𝑛𝑒𝑤 _𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ ← NewBatch(𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑥 ])
16: 𝑚𝑖𝑐𝑟𝑜 _𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑠 += 𝑛𝑒𝑤 _𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ
17: 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠.𝑝𝑜𝑝 (𝑖𝑑𝑥 )
18: 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 _𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑠.𝑝𝑜𝑝 (𝑖𝑑𝑥 )
19: return 𝑚𝑖𝑐𝑟𝑜 _𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑠 , 𝑎𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡 _𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠
B Further Discussion
B.1 MoE v.s. Dense Models
The performance model and system optimizations proposed
in this work are fully applicable to dense models. As dis-
cussed in §3.3, MoE models present greater challenges with
their higher memory-to-FLOPS ratio. This benefits them
more from the system optimizations, which specifically aim
to improve I/O efficiency and reduce pipeline bubbles. Dense
models can benefit from these optimizations as well; however,
they are more likely to be bottle-necked by CPU memory
bandwidth during attention (depending on sequence length),
where methods like sparse attention[9, 45, 54] and quantized
KV cache may offer more gains.
B.2 Optimizer Overhead
In §4.2, we introduced the optimization target Eq. (12) and
the search space. For a given workload, model and hardware
specification, the optimal policy can be generated offline
through mixed integer linear programming (MILP), which
takes less than a minute.
C Future Work
Advanced performance model. HRM presented in this
work is limited to hardware within a single node and does
not account for GPU-GPU communication or multi-node
communication, both of which are critical for more com-
prehensive distributed performance modeling. Additionally,
with recent advances in leveraging KV cache sparsity for
long-context inference [45], it becomes essential to incor-
porate these optimizations into the performance model. For
example, when CPU attention emerges as the bottleneck, the
KV cache budget can be adjusted to better balance CPU and
GPU computation, enhancing overall system efficiency.
Disk and other hardware support. MoE-Lightning cur-
rently focuses on scenarios where GPU memory is limited
but sufficient CPU memory is available to hold the model,
highlighting the effectiveness of both CGOPipe and HRM.
However, when CPU memory is insufficient to hold the en-
tire model, disk offloading becomes essential. Moreover, sup-
porting hardware such as TPUs and other accelerators is
essential for extending the versatility of MoE-Lightning to
diverse computing environments.
References
[1] Flashinfer AI. Flashinfer: Kernel library for llm serving. https://github.
com/flashinfer-ai/flashinfer , 2024. Accessed: 2024-05-20.
[2] Joshua Ainslie, James Lee-Thorp, Michiel de Jong, Yury Zemlyanskiy,
Federico Lebrón, and Sumit Sanghai. Gqa: Training generalized multi-
query transformer models from multi-head checkpoints.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.13245, 2023.
[3] Keivan Alizadeh, Iman Mirzadeh, Dmitry Belenko, Karen Khatamifard,
Minsik Cho, Carlo C Del Mundo, Mohammad Rastegari, and Mehrdad
Farajtabar. Llm in a flash: Efficient large language model inference
with limited memory, 2024.
[4] Reza Yazdani Aminabadi, Samyam Rajbhandari, Ammar Ahmad Awan,
Cheng Li, Du Li, Elton Zheng, Olatunji Ruwase, Shaden Smith, Minjia
Zhang, Jeff Rasley, et al. Deepspeed-inference: enabling efficient
inference of transformer models at unprecedented scale. In SC22:
International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking,
Storage and Analysis, pages 1–15. IEEE, 2022.
[5] Charlie Chen, Sebastian Borgeaud, Geoffrey Irving, Jean-Baptiste
Lespiau, Laurent Sifre, and John Jumper. Accelerating large language
model decoding with speculative sampling, 2023.
[6] Wuyang Chen, Yanqi Zhou, Nan Du, Yanping Huang, James Laudon,
Zhifeng Chen, and Claire Cui. Lifelong language pretraining with
distribution-specialized experts. In International Conference on Ma-
chine Learning, pages 5383–5395. PMLR, 2023.
13


===== PAGE 14 =====
[7] Xinyun Chen, Petros Maniatis, Rishabh Singh, Charles Sutton, Hanjun
Dai, Max Lin, and Denny Zhou. Spreadsheetcoder: Formula prediction
from semi-structured context. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 1661–1672. PMLR, 2021.
[8] Wei-Lin Chiang, Lianmin Zheng, Ying Sheng, Anastasios Nikolas An-
gelopoulos, Tianle Li, Dacheng Li, Hao Zhang, Banghua Zhu, Michael
Jordan, Joseph E Gonzalez, et al. Chatbot arena: An open platform for
evaluating llms by human preference. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.04132,
2024.
[9] Rewon Child, Scott Gray, Alec Radford, and Ilya Sutskever. Generating
long sequences with sparse transformers, 2019.
[10] Damai Dai, Chengqi Deng, Chenggang Zhao, R. X. Xu, Huazuo Gao,
Deli Chen, Jiashi Li, Wangding Zeng, Xingkai Yu, Y. Wu, Zhenda
Xie, Y. K. Li, Panpan Huang, Fuli Luo, Chong Ruan, Zhifang Sui, and
Wenfeng Liang. Deepseekmoe: Towards ultimate expert specialization
in mixture-of-experts language models. CoRR, abs/2401.06066, 2024.
[11] Tri Dao. FlashAttention-2: Faster attention with better parallelism
and work partitioning. In International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations (ICLR), 2024.
[12] Tri Dao, Daniel Y. Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher
Ré. FlashAttention: Fast and memory-efficient exact attention with
IO-awareness. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS), 2022.
[13] Nan Du, Yanping Huang, Andrew M Dai, Simon Tong, Dmitry Lep-
ikhin, Yuanzhong Xu, Maxim Krikun, Yanqi Zhou, Adams Wei Yu,
Orhan Firat, et al. Glam: Efficient scaling of language models with
mixture-of-experts. In International Conference on Machine Learning ,
pages 5547–5569. PMLR, 2022.
[14] Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Ka-
dian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten,
Amy Yang, Angela Fan, et al. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.21783, 2024.
[15] Artyom Eliseev and Denis Mazur. Fast inference of mixture-of-experts
language models with offloading, 2023.
[16] Shiqing Fan, Yi Rong, Chen Meng, Zongyan Cao, Siyu Wang, Zhen
Zheng, Chuan Wu, Guoping Long, Jun Yang, Lixue Xia, et al. Dap-
ple: A pipelined data parallel approach for training large models. In
Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and
Practice of Parallel Programming , pages 431–445, 2021.
[17] Jiaao He and Jidong Zhai. Fastdecode: High-throughput gpu-efficient
llm serving using heterogeneous pipelines, 2024.
[18] Yanping Huang, Youlong Cheng, Ankur Bapna, Orhan Firat, Dehao
Chen, Mia Chen, HyoukJoong Lee, Jiquan Ngiam, Quoc V Le, Yonghui
Wu, et al. Gpipe: Efficient training of giant neural networks using
pipeline parallelism. Advances in neural information processing systems,
32, 2019.
[19] HuggingFace. Hugging face accelerate. https://huggingface.co/docs/
accelerate/index, 2022.
[20] Intel. Intel(r) oneapi math kernel library (onemkl). https://www.intel.
com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/onemkl.html, 2024.
[21] Robert A. Jacobs, Michael I. Jordan, Steven J. Nowlan, and Geoffrey E.
Hinton. Adaptive mixtures of local experts. Neural Comput., 3(1):79–
87, 1991.
[22] Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Men-
sch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego
de Las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel,
Guillaume Bour, Guillaume Lample, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Lucile
Saulnier, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Sandeep Subramanian,
Sophia Yang, Szymon Antoniak, Teven Le Scao, Théophile Gervet,
Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El
Sayed. Mixtral of experts. CoRR, abs/2401.04088, 2024.
[23] Michael I Jordan and Robert A Jacobs. Hierarchical mixtures of experts
and the em algorithm. Neural computation, 6(2):181–214, 1994.
[24] Jordan Juravsky, Bradley Brown, Ryan Ehrlich, Daniel Y. Fu, Christo-
pher Ré, and Azalia Mirhoseini. Hydragen: High-throughput llm
inference with shared prefixes, 2024.
[25] Keisuke Kamahori, Yile Gu, Kan Zhu, and Baris Kasikci. Fiddler: Cpu-
gpu orchestration for fast inference of mixture-of-experts models,
2024.
[26] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin
Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica.
Efficient memory management for large language model serving with
pagedattention. In Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, pages 611–626, 2023.
[27] Dmitry Lepikhin, HyoukJoong Lee, Yuanzhong Xu, Dehao Chen,
Orhan Firat, Yanping Huang, Maxim Krikun, Noam Shazeer, and
Zhifeng Chen. Gshard: Scaling giant models with conditional com-
putation and automatic sharding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.16668 ,
2020.
[28] Yaniv Leviathan, Matan Kalman, and Yossi Matias. Fast inference from
transformers via speculative decoding, 2023.
[29] Percy Liang, Rishi Bommasani, Tony Lee, Dimitris Tsipras, Dilara
Soylu, Michihiro Yasunaga, Yian Zhang, Deepak Narayanan, Yuhuai
Wu, Ananya Kumar, et al. Holistic evaluation of language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09110, 2022.
[30] Yujun Lin, Haotian Tang, Shang Yang, Zhekai Zhang, Guangxuan
Xiao, Chuang Gan, and Song Han. Qserve: W4a8kv4 quantization and
system co-design for efficient llm serving, 2024.
[31] Shu Liu, Asim Biswal, Audrey Cheng, Xiangxi Mo, Shiyi Cao, Joseph E.
Gonzalez, Ion Stoica, and Matei Zaharia. Optimizing llm queries in
relational workloads, 2024.
[32] MistralAI. https://mistral.ai/news/mixtral-8x22b/, April 2024.
[33] Avanika Narayan, Ines Chami, Laurel Orr, and Christopher Ré. Can
foundation models wrangle your data?arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.09911,
2022.
[34] Deepak Narayanan, Aaron Harlap, Amar Phanishayee, Vivek Seshadri,
Nikhil R Devanur, Gregory R Ganger, Phillip B Gibbons, and Matei
Zaharia. Pipedream: generalized pipeline parallelism for dnn train-
ing. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM symposium on operating systems
principles, pages 1–15, 2019.
[35] Deepak Narayanan, Mohammad Shoeybi, Jared Casper, Patrick LeGres-
ley, Mostofa Patwary, Vijay Korthikanti, Dmitri Vainbrand, Prethvi
Kashinkunti, Julie Bernauer, Bryan Catanzaro, et al. Efficient large-
scale language model training on gpu clusters using megatron-lm.
In Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance
Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis , pages 1–15, 2021.
[36] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James
Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia
Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. Pytorch: An imperative style, high-
performance deep learning library. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 32, 2019.
[37] Reiner Pope, Sholto Douglas, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Jacob Devlin,
James Bradbury, Jonathan Heek, Kefan Xiao, Shivani Agrawal, and
Jeff Dean. Efficiently scaling transformer inference. Proceedings of
Machine Learning and Systems , 5, 2023.
[38] Sarunya Pumma, Jongsoo Park, Jianyu Huang, Amy Yang, Jaewon Lee,
Daniel Haziza, Grigory Sizov, Jeremy Reizenstein, Jeff Johnson, and
Ying Zhang. Int4 decoding gqa cuda optimizations for llm inference.
https://pytorch.org/blog/int4-decoding/, 2024.
[39] Andrea Santilli, Silvio Severino, Emilian Postolache, Valentino
Maiorca, Michele Mancusi, Riccardo Marin, and Emanuele Rodola.
Accelerating transformer inference for translation via parallel decod-
ing. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) . Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2023.
[40] Teven Le Scao, Angela Fan, Christopher Akiki, Ellie Pavlick, Suzana
Ilić, Daniel Hesslow, Roman Castagné, Alexandra Sasha Luccioni,
14


===== PAGE 15 =====
François Yvon, Matthias Gallé, et al. Bloom: A 176b-parameter open-
access multilingual language model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.05100,
2022.
[41] Noam Shazeer, Azalia Mirhoseini, Krzysztof Maziarz, Andy Davis,
Quoc Le, Geoffrey Hinton, and Jeff Dean. Outrageously large neural
networks: The sparsely-gated mixture-of-experts layer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1701.06538, 2017.
[42] Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Binhang Yuan, Zhuohan Li, Max
Ryabinin, Beidi Chen, Percy Liang, Christopher Ré, Ion Stoica, and
Ce Zhang. Flexgen: High-throughput generative inference of large
language models with a single gpu. In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 31094–31116. PMLR, 2023.
[43] Yixin Song, Zeyu Mi, Haotong Xie, and Haibo Chen. Powerinfer: Fast
large language model serving with a consumer-grade gpu, 2023.
[44] Mitchell Stern, Noam Shazeer, and Jakob Uszkoreit. Blockwise parallel
decoding for deep autoregressive models, 2018.
[45] Jiaming Tang, Yilong Zhao, Kan Zhu, Guangxuan Xiao, Baris Kasikci,
and Song Han. Quest: Query-aware sparsity for efficient long-context
llm inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.10774, 2024.
[46] Mosaic Research Team. Introducing dbrx: A new state-of-the-art open
llm, 2024. https://www.databricks.com/blog/introducing-dbrx-new-
state-art-open-llm , March 2024. Accessed 2024-06-20.
[47] Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-
Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric
Hambro, Faisal Azhar, et al. Llama: Open and efficient foundation
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13971, 2023.
[48] Samuel Williams, Andrew Waterman, and David A. Patterson.
Roofline: an insightful visual performance model for multicore ar-
chitectures. Commun. ACM, 52(4):65–76, 2009.
[49] ZHAO XUANLEI, Bin Jia, Haotian Zhou, Ziming Liu, Shenggan Cheng,
and Yang You. Hetegen: Efficient heterogeneous parallel inference for
large language models on resource-constrained devices. Proceedings
of Machine Learning and Systems , 6:162–172, 2024.
[50] Leyang Xue, Yao Fu, Zhan Lu, Luo Mai, and Mahesh Marina. Moe-
infinity: Activation-aware expert offloading for efficient moe serving,
2024.
[51] Gyeong-In Yu, Joo Seong Jeong, Geon-Woo Kim, Soojeong Kim,
and Byung-Gon Chun. Orca: A distributed serving system for
{Transformer-Based} generative models. In 16th USENIX Symposium
on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 22) , pages
521–538, 2022.
[52] Zhihang Yuan, Yuzhang Shang, Yang Zhou, Zhen Dong, Chenhao Xue,
Bingzhe Wu, Zhikai Li, Qingyi Gu, Yong Jae Lee, Yan Yan, Beidi Chen,
Guangyu Sun, and Kurt Keutzer. Llm inference unveiled: Survey and
roofline model insights, 2024.
[53] Susan Zhang, Stephen Roller, Naman Goyal, Mikel Artetxe, Moya
Chen, Shuohui Chen, Christopher Dewan, Mona Diab, Xian Li, Xi Vic-
toria Lin, et al. Opt: Open pre-trained transformer language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.01068, 2022.
[54] Zhenyu Zhang, Ying Sheng, Tianyi Zhou, Tianlong Chen, Lianmin
Zheng, Ruisi Cai, Zhao Song, Yuandong Tian, Christopher Ré, Clark
Barrett, et al. H2o: Heavy-hitter oracle for efficient generative in-
ference of large language models. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
[55] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhang-
hao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing,
et al. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36, 2024.
[56] Lianmin Zheng, Liangsheng Yin, Zhiqiang Xie, Chuyue Sun, Jeff
Huang, Cody Hao Yu, Shiyi Cao, Christos Kozyrakis, Ion Stoica,
Joseph E. Gonzalez, Clark Barrett, and Ying Sheng. Sglang: Efficient
execution of structured language model programs, 2024.
[57] Yanqi Zhou, Tao Lei, Hanxiao Liu, Nan Du, Yanping Huang, Vincent
Zhao, Andrew M Dai, Quoc V Le, James Laudon, et al. Mixture-of-
experts with expert choice routing. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:7103–7114, 2022.
15